all right the rtx 3090 from nvidia this
is
the thickest and the quickest gpu this
is the king of the geforce gpus right
now
it is big and it's super expensive comes
in at 1500
but just for comparison the 2080 ti this
is
a much smaller card the 20 ti is like
i don't know it feels like a toy in
comparison to this thing like look how
big this thing is now
this chunky boy i'm going to jump into
the benchmarks first it's probably the
least important part of the conversation
there's way more important stuff to talk
about but for the people that are
interested
4k gaming is probably like 8 to 10
better than an rtx 3080 in most games
it's nothing crazy occasionally might
hit like 11 12
better but for the average person that's
looking for a new gpu
it doesn't seem to make sense right 10
12 better at best
for more than double the price what's
going on so here's the thing
this is not a 4k gaming card if that's
what you're looking for
rtx 3080 has you covered what this thing
does what this thing has
is a ton of video memory it's got a huge
24 gigabyte stash of it and for some
creative workflows that can make use of
extra ram
it pushes out like 20 to 25 improvements
over the 3080 so in blender
and with octane autodesk arnold v-ray
basically anything that can take
advantage of a lot of video memory
the 3090 delivers some really nice gains
a 20
to maybe 25 improvement in workflow
speed can be very significant if that's
your profession if that's how you earn
your living
paying the extra 800 bucks to pick up a
3090 instead of a 3080
is probably uh i mean for a lot of those
people a good choice
now for some people like myself included
the 3090 does not affect workflow very
much over
3080 so i shoot in 5k and occasionally
6k for my videos
and the difference in adobe premiere is
negligible like i feel like the 3080
does an amazing job
the 3090 does a slightly better job it's
not really worth it to me to pay the
extra 800 bucks
for a 30 90 if video editing was all i
was doing
now i want to talk about 8k gaming
because this
card has been touted by nvidia as being
capable of playing 8k
games at 60 frames per second and yes it
can be done with dlss
and the huge amounts of video memory
this thing has it can push out
pretty smooth frame rates in 8k and for
the past few days that's what i've been
doing
on dell monitor 8k it's been an
experience
so this is what i've noticed about it 8k
gaming is
highly dependent on the type of game
that you're playing so stuff like doom
and overwatch or games where the action
is so quick it's kind of hard to
appreciate the
increase in resolution like the extra
details are there there's definitely
more pixels and if you look for it like
if you're looking at your gun you look
at the
kind of features and details on the
artwork it's there
you stick your face right up to the
screen you'll notice it but the thing is
when you're playing these games
you tend not to look at the stuff that
much you tend to focus on your targeting
reticle
and the actual gameplay right the other
stuff like the explosions the flares the
weapon effects particle effects
it's all in higher resolution now in 8k
but your eye just
isn't naturally drawn to that stuff
normally like you have to go out of your
way to notice it but for other games
like red dead redemption and horizon
zero dawn
these are games where the extra detail
is nice and i found that i just
noticed this stuff naturally it's not
like a mind-blowing experience right the
detail is there and it's actually really
nice
but it doesn't change the feel of the
game to me i don't feel like when i play
these games in high resolution
that the experience is all that
different from when i played it at 4k
or even 1080p from being completely
honest to me
higher resolutions are nice but it's
never been something i've chased after
i've always gone after
higher frame rate gaming but now with
the rtx 3090 you get all of it you get
high frame rates
you get crazy good image quality with
rtx dlss and
if you want you can go for ultra high
resolutions 8k gaming is actually a
thing
on this machine the thing is it is super
expensive
not just the card right the panels to
see in 8k
my screen is like four and a half five
thousand dollars the tvs that you've
seen on youtube those are like thirty
thousand dollar units they're
extremely expensive so the cost of this
card like the fifteen hundred dollar
add-on to be able to to play in 8k is
only a portion of the cost
it's a nice experience but it's a very
expensive one right now
so the cart itself it's thick af but
it's also
very heavy so this is coming in at
almost 2.2 kilos and i was worried about
sag
but the weight is distributed pretty
nicely because the pcie bracket has
three holes that line up with the three
slots so
it's a nice distribution of weight
across the different slots
the fans so just like the 3080 it's got
two fans one that has air that flows
through it and one that expels air out
the back
these fans i really like them they're
quiet even on load provided your system
is properly cooled
but the fans because they're bigger than
the 3080
their top speed isn't nearly as annoying
of a wine
so these hit i think 2 600 rpm at full
speed
and the 3080 hits 3 700 rpm it's a very
notable difference
in sound
the temperatures on the fenders edition
are okay i do think that you need a
relatively large case
to make this thing cool properly like if
you have a small case
even if it fits you're just pumping a
ton of heat into the system because of
the nature of this fan configuration and
because this is a
big heat sink with big fans there's a
lot of heat coming in
you got to find a way to exhaust it if
you have a big case with good airflow
this is great now the 1500
question that the most important
question is whether or not you should
purchase this
whether or not this is worth the extra
over rtx 3080 and i think that question
has become way more complex than it
really needs to be
if you can make use of the vram like the
24 gigs
of memory on this card i think this is a
very reasonably priced
gpu it's not a quadro it's not a titan
but it's a 1 500
card right not a 3 000 card you don't
get the certified pro drivers you also
don't get
uh ngx you also get like crippled
tensor performance if that's the stuff
you're going for but again
fifteen hundred dollars not three
thousand dollars now if you're a gamer
that has a ton of money you wanna
try you're handing 8k gaming sure you
already bought this congratulations but
for the regular people that are into 4k
gaming or less 1400 widescreen
1080p widescreen this is so
extra it really is super unnecessary
because it's not just the cost of the
card you need to have
a 850 watt power supply or probably like
750 if you're being chintzy you do need
a relatively large case to fit in so you
may need to upgrade a whole bunch of
stuff
till to make this fit so i think for
regular gamers
the 3080 is the way to go the thing is
that card is so good
that card is amazing and that's why this
is a more complex
conversation right this thing looks
expensive and it feels
weirdly overpriced because the 3080 is
as good as it as it is
but that that's the reality right that
card is meant for gaming
this card is meant for rich people with
8k tvs
and workflows that can make use
of video memory okay hope you guys
enjoyed this video thumbs if you liked
it subs if you loved it
i'll see you guys next time